What are Binary Options Signals?
To be successful in trading Binary Options, a trader has to invest a lot of time and energy into researching and gaining knowledge of the market. One way to avoid having to spend do this is to use the services of a Binary Options Signals provider. Binary Options Signals are stock market, currency or commodity trade alerts, supplied by professional traders with the aim of assisting in the choice of how and when to trade. Signals are sent in real time either by email, text message alert or via a website. Even traders who have very little or even no experience in the market are able to understand these signals as they simply indicate either “up” or “down” and can therefore easily be copied. It is easy to see why Binary Options Signals are so popular as they can boost traders’ profits when they receive an accurate signal. It is essential, however, to remember that signals do expire after a specific time frame, and traders should be prepared for this in advance. A daily signal will expire whenever the market for that asset has closed and the end price has been announced. A short term signal will expire at the end of a given period which could be as short as 60 seconds or five minutes or as long as thirty minutes. In the case of short term signals, the service will be via auto trading technology, which requires no manual action on behalf of the trader themselves rather than by sending an email or text message signal. When this type of service is used it is called an auto trading robot or an auto trader.

Binary Options Signals Explained
After making a complete analysis of all the statistical, trading, fundamental and technical influences that can have an impact on the various assets that can be traded (more information here), companies can provide Binary Options Signals. Supplied by experts in market and statistical analysis who have drawn up a shortlist of the current trends and best opportunities within the binary options market, these tips are then provided to the client by the binary options signal provider in order to save the trader from spending time and effort on analysing the market independently. Making a trade that is based on these signals is one of the best ways to increase profits while limiting risk in binary option trading. Even the most inexperienced trader can use this expert analysis to make a successful trade, even if they know nothing about statistical analysis. Although initially, binary options signals may seem to very complex and technical, over time they can improve a trader’s experience and the underlying dynamics of trading. It is widely believed that night time is the best time to make use of binary options signals as at that time of day, traders have plenty of time in which to make decisions. Of course it is vital to choose an experienced and professional binary options signals provider. Although there are many service providers in the industry, not all are trustworthy or reliable. It is most convenient to select a binary options signals provider that offers an online service. Take the time to analyse the records and data of any provider with regard to the current market trend to ensure that they can perform secure trading on your behalf. Using the best binary options signals provider has been demonstrated in studies to increase a trader’s payout by around 60%, which serves to emphasise their importance. However it is also vital to understand the risk factors involved in trading binary options, even if you are going to hire the services of another provider to trade on your behalf. If you can understand the concepts of resistance and support you will, in turn, begin to grasp how to interpret price charts and therefore come to an understanding of how binary options signals function. The direction that prices move indicates the stronger factor and it is also a determinant of the point when prices can be expected to go up or come down. However if you get a trading signal that details a situation when a resistance or support point is close to being reached, you may need some help to know how to respond to the situation.

How do Binary Options Signals Work?
Traders know that the most effective way to be successful at binary options trading is to use analysis of statistics to spot trends as they are developing, or, in other words, to spot the patterns of behaviour in the market. Providers of Binary Options signals use software that has been programmed to spot these trends and to report them, thus saving the trader a lot of time that they would otherwise have spent analysing the market independently. Watching the market for trends involves spending many hours of monitoring assets and even then, patterns may be missed. Binary Options Signals software does all of the hard work, tracking the market on traders’ behalf and notifying them whenever a trend is discovered.

Do Binary Options Trading Signals Cost Anything?
Although many binary options signals services charge a subscription fee, there are a surprising number of services that are also available free of charge that can allow traders to learn about how to analyse the market and to recognise trends. A lot of free binary options signals providers also offer a bonus to traders who register for their services as well as discounts for loyal customers. There are, however, downsides to these free services as they tend to come in the form of reviews, articles and charts that can assist traders in making an informed decision but that also necessitate the trader to spend time researching on their own. On the contrary, paid binary options trading providers do all the hard work, simply giving traders all of the necessary facts about current trends and guidance as to how they affect the market. While the free providers are great for those who want to learn more about reading the market and understanding how to select the best assets, those who want to have an easier approach or who lack the time or skill to do the groundwork themselves would be better off choosing a fee-charging provider.

What Types of Binary Options Signals are There?
There are lots of types of binary trading signals, and here are some of the most common:

Live Trading

Live trading signals involve watching a live video of a trading session, which allows traders to discover how to read trends and how to use them to make effective trades.
Manual

In this case, the trade signal is sent manually instead of via an analytical program either through a social network or through a Skype link. Each signal is generally sent alongside details about why the trend or trade is viable.
SMS

An SMS signal can be sent via a mobile phone or tablet device outlining which assets should be traded together with news about the market and vital trend information.
Copy Trading Signals

This signal type is transmitted in real time and is based on expert traders’ opinons. This allows traders to copy the signals of proven traders in order to capitalise on the market.
Autotrading

This type of signal uses computer software to automatically place trades on the trader’s behalf. This is a very simple way of trading, but does not guarantee results. It is especially important when using autotrading software to choose an excellent provider to minimise risk.

How to Choose the Best Binary Options Signals Provider
Here are some of the top considerations to bear in mind when choosing the best binary signals provider:
Win Rate

You will want to choose a signals provider that has the highest possible win rate and you can discover this information on the provider’s website.
Pricing

Although there is no standard pricing, you may be able to enjoy a discount with certain brokers. Shopping around the is best way to choose a quality provider at a good price.
Reliability

It is vital to choose a reliable provider that has an excellent track record in the industry.
Support

Choosing a provider with good customer support is the best way to ensure that any problems or queries will be resolved quickly and conveniently. Try to choose a provider that has a 24/7 helpline.

Is it Possible to Make Money Using Binary Options Trading Signals?
It certainly is possible to make money by using binary options trading signals however it is vital to understand that there can be no 100% guarantee. Nevertheless, while binary options trading independently without signals is extremely time consuming and dull, choosing to use a signals service is much more likely to improve the chance of making a profit. Studies have shown that traders who use a binary options trading signals provider are up to 60% more successful in their trades than those who opt to go it alone. Those who take the time and effort to choose the right provider are likely to benefit, however the more time and money is invested in trades, the more profit there will be.

