Binary Options Trading Scam

The scam starts before the investor opens their brokerage account!

Many new binary option traders start trading, because they watched a video about binary trading signals, or a binary options robot.

The trader does not realize that the signals software is actually a scam!

The Scam Works Like This:
A fraudulent company opens a website to look like a legitimate binary options broker.
They create a trading signals software that promises 100% accuracy, and some write 100% guarantee.
They advertise their trading system under multiple names, with fake testimonials.
When you join the scam, you quickly lose your initial deposit of $250.
The trader receives a phone call from a “senior broker” who tells them to invest $5000 and their money will be managed.

Below are reviews of many different trading algo-trading robots and trading signals software.

You should choose a licensed broker

How to Prevent Becoming a Scam Victim
The first step to avoid a binary options scam is to properly research the binary options broker. Most review websites only give generic information about the brokers.

Does the broker have a license from the CFTC, CySEC, ASIC, FCA, BaFIN, or another government regulator?
Is the broker constantly calling you to deposit more money?
Does the brokers license cover investors from your country?
Has the broker been fined for unethical business practices by their regulatory agency?
The second step is to choose a good trading signals system or robot

Never use a robot that asks you to make a deposit, before you can see the settings.
Testimonials are all fake and illegal according to CySEC rules.
Never follow a trading signal unless it fits with your trading strategy.
Remember, the software that created your account, can place trades on your account.
Historical performance is never an indication of future results.
Check the binary options forum for traders discussions.
Conclusion
Binary options trading scams are a very common occurrence now. You can read all broker reviews which give detailed information about the particular broker. Do your research, and don’t get excited about making $1,000 by doing nothing. For every broker you find, and every trading system you hear about, there are 10 others who offer the exact same thing.

When choosing a broker, make sure you are using a locally licensed and regulated broker, choose one here.

Just look at the list of trading signals software.

